docs/authentication/social-connections/apple.mdx, before:

---
description: Learn how to allow users to sign into your Clerk app with their Apple ID using OAuth.
---

# OAuth with Apple

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "A Clerk application is required.",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
      icon: "clerk",
    },
    {
      title: "An Apple Developer account is required.",
      link: "https://developer.apple.com/programs/enroll/",
      icon: "user-circle",
    }
  ]}
>
  - Use [Sign in with Apple](https://developer.apple.com/sign-in-with-apple/) to authenticate users with OAuth in your apps and websites.
</TutorialHero>

Enabling OAuth via [Sign in with Apple](https://developer.apple.com/sign-in-with-apple/) allows your users to sign in and sign up to your Clerk application with their Apple ID.

## Configure for your development instance

To make the development flow as smooth as possible, Clerk uses preconfigured shared OAuth credentials and redirect URIs for _development instances_ - no other configuration is needed. Navigate to the Clerk Dashboard and go to **User & Authentication -> [Social Connections](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/social-connections)**. In the list of **Auth Providers**, enable Apple and select **Save**.

For native sign in flows (iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS) you must provide your app's [Bundle ID](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids).

## Configure for your production instance

In _production instances_, you must provide custom credentials.

For web based browser originated flows you need to generate and provide your own **Apple Services ID**, **Apple Private Key**, **Apple Team ID**, and **Apple Key ID** using your Apple Developer account. Don't worry, this tutorial will walk you through that process in just a few steps.

For native sign in flows (iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS) you must at least provide your app's **Bundle ID**. For better results, it's recommended to also provide the web based flow fields.

<Steps>
  ### Enable Apple as a social connection

  To get started, you must enable Apple as a social connection in your Clerk Dashboard.

  1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/social-connections).
  1. In the navigation sidebar, go to **User & Authentication > Social Connections**.
  1. In the list of **Auth Providers**, enable **Apple**.
  1. In the modal that opens, ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. (For web based flows) Save the **Email Source for Apple Private Email Relay** and **Return URL** values somewhere secure, as you'll need to supply them to Apple later. Leave this page and modal open.

  ### Get your Apple Team ID

  The **Apple Team ID** is required for web based OAuth flows and recommended for native app flows.

  To get your **Apple Team ID**, you must create a new **App ID** in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. In another tab, navigate to the [Apple Developer portal](https://developer.apple.com/account).
  1. Under **Certificates, IDs and Profiles**, select **Identifiers**.
  1. In the dropdown near the top-right of the page, select the **App IDs** option from the list.
  1. Next to **Identifiers** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new identifier.
  1. On the **Register a new identifier** page, select **App IDs**, then select **Continue**.
  1. On the next page, you'll be prompted to **Select a type** for your application. Choose **App** and select **Continue.** You will be redirected to the **Register an App ID** page.
  1. Fill in a description for your **App ID** and a **Bundle ID**. Any value is fine, such as "Clerk demo app" and "clerkdemoapp", respectively. Under **Capabilities**, ensure that **Sign In with Apple** is enabled. Then select **Continue**. You'll be redirected to the **Confirm your App ID** page.
  1. At the top of the page, you'll see your **App ID Prefix**. Save this value somewhere secure, as you'll need it to configure your Clerk app. This is your **App Team ID** in Clerk.
  1. Finally, select **Register**.

  ### Get your Apple Services ID

  The **Apple Services ID** is required for web based OAuth flows and recommended for native app flows.

  To get your **Apple Services ID**, you must create a new **Services ID** in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. You should be back at the **Identifiers** page.
  1. In the dropdown near the top-right of the page, select the **Services IDs** option from the list.
  1. Next to **Identifiers** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new identifier.
  1. On the **Register new identifier** page, select **Services IDs**, then select **Continue**. You'll be redirected to the **Register a Services ID** page.
  1. Add a description for your **Services ID**, and set an **Identifier**. Any value is fine, such as "Clerk demo app" and "clerkdemoapp", respectively. Save the **Identifier** value somewhere secure, as you'll need it to configure your Clerk app. This is your **Services ID** in Clerk. Finally, select **Continue**.
  1. In the confirmation view, select **Register**.
  1. After the registration is finished, select the newly-created **Services ID**. Ensure the **Sign In with Apple** box is enabled and select **Configure**.
  1. Under **Primary App ID**, select the **App ID** you created in the previous step.
  1. Under **Domains and subdomains**, add your `clerk.<INSERT-YOUR-DOMAIN>.com` domain. Under **Return URLS**, add the **Return URL** value you saved from the Clerk Dashboard. For example, if your domain is `myapp.com`, then you would add `clerk.myapp.com` to **Domains and subdomains** and `https://clerk.myapp.com/v1/oauth_callback` to **Return URLS**.
  1. Select **Next**. You'll be redirect to the **Confirm your web authentication configuration** screen.
  1. Select **Done**. You'll be taken back to the **Edit your Services ID Configuration** page.
  1. Select **Continue**. You'll be taken to the confirmation page.
  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Get your Apple Private Key and Key ID

  The **Apple Private Key** and **Key ID** are required for web based OAuth flows and recommended for native app flows.

  To get your **Apple Private Key** and **Key ID**, you must create a new **Key** in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. You should be back at the **Identifiers** page.
  1. In the sidebar, select **Keys**.
  1. Next to **Keys** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new key.
  1. On the **Register a New Key** page, add a **Key Name** and ensure the **Sign In with Apple** box is enabled and select **Configure**. You'll be redirected to the **Configure Key** page.
  1. Under **Primary App ID**, select the **App ID** you created in the first step of this guide. Then select **Save**. You'll be taken back to the previous **Register a New Key** page.
  1. Select **Continue** and you'll be presented with the final confirmation screen. Verify that **Sign in with Apple** is checked and select **Register**. You'll be redirected to the **Download Your Key** page.
  1. Save the **Key ID** value as you'll need to supply it to Clerk later.
  1. Download the private key as a file (as the instructions point out, be sure to backup the key in a secure place as it cannot be redownloaded later).
  1. Select **Done**.

  ### Configure Email Source for Apple Private Relay

  Apple provides a privacy feature called [Hide My Email](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210425#hideemail), in which users can sign in to your app with Apple without revealing their real email addresses. Instead, your instance will receive an app-specific email address that will nevertheless forward any emails to the real user's address.

  To be able to send emails properly to users with hidden addresses, you must configure an additional setting in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. Return to the **Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles** page.
  1. In the sidebar, select **Services**.
  1. Under **Sign in with Apple for Email Communication**, select **Configure**. You'll be redirected to the **Configure Sign in with Apple for Email Communication** page.
  1. Next to **Email sources** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to add a new **Email Source**.
  1. In the **Register your email sources** modal that opened, under **Email Addresses**, add the **Email Source for Apple Private Email Relay** value that you saved from the Clerk Dashboard. It should look something like this: `bounces+00000000@clkmail.myapp.com`.
  1. Select **Next**. You'll be taken to the confirmation page.
  1. Select **Register**.
  1. On the completion page, select **Done**.

  After this, you should now see the email address added to the list, and it should be marked as verified with a green check icon. If it does not appear as verified yet, DNS propagation may take some time to complete so wait before trying to select the **Reverify SPF** button.

  The **Email Source** and **Apple Private Relay** are required only for web based OAuth flows.

  For more info about Apple's Private Relay service, refer to the following documentation:

  - [https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210425#hideemail](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210425#hideemail)
  - [https://help.apple.com/developer-account/?lang=en#/devf822fb8fc](https://help.apple.com/developer-account/?lang=en#/devf822fb8fc)

  ### Get your Apple Bundle ID

  The **Apple Bundle ID** is required for native OAuth flows (iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS).

  You can find your **Apple Bundle ID** in the list of app IDs or manually set it up.

  1. Navigate to the [Apple Developer portal](https://developer.apple.com/account).
  1. Under **Certificates, IDs and Profiles**, select **Identifiers**.
  1. In the dropdown near the top-right of the page, select the **App IDs** option from the list.
  1. If you've already set up your project in XCode, your Bundle ID should be already registered. Otherwise, follow the steps below to create a new identifier.
  1. Next to **Identifiers** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new identifier.
  1. On the **Register a new identifier** page, select **App IDs**, then select **Continue**.
  1. On the next page, you'll be prompted to **Select a type** for your application. Choose **App** and select **Continue.** You will be redirected to the **Register an App ID** page.
  1. Fill in a description for your **App ID** and a **Bundle ID**. Any value is fine, such as "Clerk demo app" and "clerkdemoapp", respectively. Under **Capabilities**, ensure that **Sign In with Apple** is enabled. Then select **Continue**. You'll be redirected to the **Confirm your App ID** page.
  1. At the top of the page, you'll see your **Bundle ID**. Save this value somewhere secure, as you'll need it to configure your Clerk app. This is your **Apple Bundle ID** in Clerk.
  1. Finally, select **Register**.

  ### Connect your Apple app to your Clerk app

  By now, you should have the following values saved from the Apple Developer portal:

  - **Apple Team ID**
  - **Apple Services ID**
  - **Apple Key ID**
  - **Apple Private Key** file
  - **Apple Bundle ID** (for native flows)

  Connect your Apple app to your Clerk app by adding these values to the Clerk Dashboard.

  1. Navigate back to the tab where your Clerk Dashboard and your Apple configuration modal is open.
  1. Add all the corresponding fields depending on your desired flow. For the **Apple Private Key** file, open it with a text editor and just copy/paste the contents.
  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Test your OAuth

  The simplest way to test your OAuth is to visit your Clerk application's [Account Portal](/docs/account-portal/overview), which is available for all Clerk applications out-of-the-box.

  1. In the navigation sidebar of the Clerk Dashboard, select [**Account Portal**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=account-portal).
  1. Next to the **Sign-in** URL, select **Visit**. The URL should resemble:
     - **For development** – `https://your-domain.accounts.dev/sign-in`
     - **For production** – `https://accounts.your-domain.com/sign-in`
  1. On the sign-in page, you should see **Continue with Apple** as an option. Use it to sign in with your Apple account.
</Steps>

Commit message:

move callout for email step

docs/authentication/social-connections/apple.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to allow users to sign into your Clerk app with their Apple ID using OAuth.
---

# OAuth with Apple

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "A Clerk application is required.",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
      icon: "clerk",
    },
    {
      title: "An Apple Developer account is required.",
      link: "https://developer.apple.com/programs/enroll/",
      icon: "user-circle",
    }
  ]}
>
  - Use [Sign in with Apple](https://developer.apple.com/sign-in-with-apple/) to authenticate users with OAuth in your apps and websites.
</TutorialHero>

Enabling OAuth via [Sign in with Apple](https://developer.apple.com/sign-in-with-apple/) allows your users to sign in and sign up to your Clerk application with their Apple ID.

## Configure for your development instance

To make the development flow as smooth as possible, Clerk uses preconfigured shared OAuth credentials and redirect URIs for _development instances_ - no other configuration is needed. Navigate to the Clerk Dashboard and go to **User & Authentication -> [Social Connections](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/social-connections)**. In the list of **Auth Providers**, enable Apple and select **Save**.

For native sign in flows (iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS) you must provide your app's [Bundle ID](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids).

## Configure for your production instance

In _production instances_, you must provide custom credentials.

For web based browser originated flows you need to generate and provide your own **Apple Services ID**, **Apple Private Key**, **Apple Team ID**, and **Apple Key ID** using your Apple Developer account. Don't worry, this tutorial will walk you through that process in just a few steps.

For native sign in flows (iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS) you must at least provide your app's **Bundle ID**. For better results, it's recommended to also provide the web based flow fields.

<Steps>
  ### Enable Apple as a social connection

  To get started, you must enable Apple as a social connection in your Clerk Dashboard.

  1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/social-connections).
  1. In the navigation sidebar, go to **User & Authentication > Social Connections**.
  1. In the list of **Auth Providers**, enable **Apple**.
  1. In the modal that opens, ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. (For web based flows) Save the **Email Source for Apple Private Email Relay** and **Return URL** values somewhere secure, as you'll need to supply them to Apple later. Leave this page and modal open.

  ### Get your Apple Team ID

  The **Apple Team ID** is required for web based OAuth flows and recommended for native app flows.

  To get your **Apple Team ID**, you must create a new **App ID** in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. In another tab, navigate to the [Apple Developer portal](https://developer.apple.com/account).
  1. Under **Certificates, IDs and Profiles**, select **Identifiers**.
  1. In the dropdown near the top-right of the page, select the **App IDs** option from the list.
  1. Next to **Identifiers** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new identifier.
  1. On the **Register a new identifier** page, select **App IDs**, then select **Continue**.
  1. On the next page, you'll be prompted to **Select a type** for your application. Choose **App** and select **Continue.** You will be redirected to the **Register an App ID** page.
  1. Fill in a description for your **App ID** and a **Bundle ID**. Any value is fine, such as "Clerk demo app" and "clerkdemoapp", respectively. Under **Capabilities**, ensure that **Sign In with Apple** is enabled. Then select **Continue**. You'll be redirected to the **Confirm your App ID** page.
  1. At the top of the page, you'll see your **App ID Prefix**. Save this value somewhere secure, as you'll need it to configure your Clerk app. This is your **App Team ID** in Clerk.
  1. Finally, select **Register**.

  ### Get your Apple Services ID

  The **Apple Services ID** is required for web based OAuth flows and recommended for native app flows.

  To get your **Apple Services ID**, you must create a new **Services ID** in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. You should be back at the **Identifiers** page.
  1. In the dropdown near the top-right of the page, select the **Services IDs** option from the list.
  1. Next to **Identifiers** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new identifier.
  1. On the **Register new identifier** page, select **Services IDs**, then select **Continue**. You'll be redirected to the **Register a Services ID** page.
  1. Add a description for your **Services ID**, and set an **Identifier**. Any value is fine, such as "Clerk demo app" and "clerkdemoapp", respectively. Save the **Identifier** value somewhere secure, as you'll need it to configure your Clerk app. This is your **Services ID** in Clerk. Finally, select **Continue**.
  1. In the confirmation view, select **Register**.
  1. After the registration is finished, select the newly-created **Services ID**. Ensure the **Sign In with Apple** box is enabled and select **Configure**.
  1. Under **Primary App ID**, select the **App ID** you created in the previous step.
  1. Under **Domains and subdomains**, add your `clerk.<INSERT-YOUR-DOMAIN>.com` domain. Under **Return URLS**, add the **Return URL** value you saved from the Clerk Dashboard. For example, if your domain is `myapp.com`, then you would add `clerk.myapp.com` to **Domains and subdomains** and `https://clerk.myapp.com/v1/oauth_callback` to **Return URLS**.
  1. Select **Next**. You'll be redirect to the **Confirm your web authentication configuration** screen.
  1. Select **Done**. You'll be taken back to the **Edit your Services ID Configuration** page.
  1. Select **Continue**. You'll be taken to the confirmation page.
  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Get your Apple Private Key and Key ID

  The **Apple Private Key** and **Key ID** are required for web based OAuth flows and recommended for native app flows.

  To get your **Apple Private Key** and **Key ID**, you must create a new **Key** in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. You should be back at the **Identifiers** page.
  1. In the sidebar, select **Keys**.
  1. Next to **Keys** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new key.
  1. On the **Register a New Key** page, add a **Key Name** and ensure the **Sign In with Apple** box is enabled and select **Configure**. You'll be redirected to the **Configure Key** page.
  1. Under **Primary App ID**, select the **App ID** you created in the first step of this guide. Then select **Save**. You'll be taken back to the previous **Register a New Key** page.
  1. Select **Continue** and you'll be presented with the final confirmation screen. Verify that **Sign in with Apple** is checked and select **Register**. You'll be redirected to the **Download Your Key** page.
  1. Save the **Key ID** value as you'll need to supply it to Clerk later.
  1. Download the private key as a file (as the instructions point out, be sure to backup the key in a secure place as it cannot be redownloaded later).
  1. Select **Done**.

  ### Configure Email Source for Apple Private Relay

  This is an optional step and is for web based OAuth flows only.

  Apple provides a privacy feature called [Hide My Email](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210425#hideemail), in which users can sign in to your app with Apple without revealing their real email addresses. Instead, your instance will receive an app-specific email address that will nevertheless forward any emails to the real user's address.

  To be able to send emails properly to users with hidden addresses, you must configure an additional setting in the Apple Developer portal.

  1. Return to the **Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles** page.
  1. In the sidebar, select **Services**.
  1. Under **Sign in with Apple for Email Communication**, select **Configure**. You'll be redirected to the **Configure Sign in with Apple for Email Communication** page.
  1. Next to **Email sources** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to add a new **Email Source**.
  1. In the **Register your email sources** modal that opened, under **Email Addresses**, add the **Email Source for Apple Private Email Relay** value that you saved from the Clerk Dashboard. It should look something like this: `bounces+00000000@clkmail.myapp.com`.
  1. Select **Next**. You'll be taken to the confirmation page.
  1. Select **Register**.
  1. On the completion page, select **Done**.

  After this, you should now see the email address added to the list, and it should be marked as verified with a green check icon. If it does not appear as verified yet, DNS propagation may take some time to complete so wait before trying to select the **Reverify SPF** button.

  For more info about Apple's Private Relay service, refer to the following documentation:

  - [https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210425#hideemail](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210425#hideemail)
  - [https://help.apple.com/developer-account/?lang=en#/devf822fb8fc](https://help.apple.com/developer-account/?lang=en#/devf822fb8fc)

  ### Get your Apple Bundle ID

  The **Apple Bundle ID** is required for native OAuth flows (iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS).

  You can find your **Apple Bundle ID** in the list of app IDs or manually set it up.

  1. Navigate to the [Apple Developer portal](https://developer.apple.com/account).
  1. Under **Certificates, IDs and Profiles**, select **Identifiers**.
  1. In the dropdown near the top-right of the page, select the **App IDs** option from the list.
  1. If you've already set up your project in XCode, your Bundle ID should be already registered. Otherwise, follow the steps below to create a new identifier.
  1. Next to **Identifiers** at the top of the page, select the plus icon (+) to register a new identifier.
  1. On the **Register a new identifier** page, select **App IDs**, then select **Continue**.
  1. On the next page, you'll be prompted to **Select a type** for your application. Choose **App** and select **Continue.** You will be redirected to the **Register an App ID** page.
  1. Fill in a description for your **App ID** and a **Bundle ID**. Any value is fine, such as "Clerk demo app" and "clerkdemoapp", respectively. Under **Capabilities**, ensure that **Sign In with Apple** is enabled. Then select **Continue**. You'll be redirected to the **Confirm your App ID** page.
  1. At the top of the page, you'll see your **Bundle ID**. Save this value somewhere secure, as you'll need it to configure your Clerk app. This is your **Apple Bundle ID** in Clerk.
  1. Finally, select **Register**.

  ### Connect your Apple app to your Clerk app

  By now, you should have the following values saved from the Apple Developer portal:

  - **Apple Team ID**
  - **Apple Services ID**
  - **Apple Key ID**
  - **Apple Private Key** file
  - **Apple Bundle ID** (for native flows)

  Connect your Apple app to your Clerk app by adding these values to the Clerk Dashboard.

  1. Navigate back to the tab where your Clerk Dashboard and your Apple configuration modal is open.
  1. Add all the corresponding fields depending on your desired flow. For the **Apple Private Key** file, open it with a text editor and just copy/paste the contents.
  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Test your OAuth

  The simplest way to test your OAuth is to visit your Clerk application's [Account Portal](/docs/account-portal/overview), which is available for all Clerk applications out-of-the-box.

  1. In the navigation sidebar of the Clerk Dashboard, select [**Account Portal**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=account-portal).
  1. Next to the **Sign-in** URL, select **Visit**. The URL should resemble:
     - **For development** – `https://your-domain.accounts.dev/sign-in`
     - **For production** – `https://accounts.your-domain.com/sign-in`
  1. On the sign-in page, you should see **Continue with Apple** as an option. Use it to sign in with your Apple account.
</Steps>
