docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor.mdx, before:

---
title: First factor
description: These are all methods on the SignIn class that allow you to handle the first factor of a multi-factor authentication flow.
---

These are all methods on the [`SignIn`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in) class that allow you to handle the first factor of a multi-factor authentication flow.

## `prepareFirstFactor()`

Begins the first factor verification process. This is a required step in order to complete a sign in, as users should be verified at least by one factor of authentication.

Common scenarios are one-time code (OTP) or social account (SSO) verification. This is determined by the accepted `strategy` parameter values. Each authentication identifier supports different strategies.

```typescript
function prepareFirstFactor(params: PrepareFirstFactorParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

### `PrepareFirstFactorParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `string`

  The `strategy` value depends on the object's `identifier` value. Each authentication identifier supports different verification strategies. Possible `strategy` values are:

  - `email_link`: User will receive an email magic link via email. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `email_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code via email. At least one email address should be on file for the user. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `phone_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code in their phone, via SMS. At least one phone number should be on file for the user. The `phone_number_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known phone numbers the SMS will go to.
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address. The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used. Currently Clerk supports [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).
  - `oauth_<provider>`: The user will be authenticated with their social sign-in account. See available [OAuth providers](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth#o-auth-provider).

  ---

  - `emailAddressId?`
  - `string`

  Unique identifier for the user's email address that will receive an email message with the one-time authentication code. This parameter will work only when the `email_code` strategy is specified.

  ---

  - `phoneNumberId?`
  - `string`

  Unique identifier for the user's phone number that will receive an SMS message with the one-time authentication code. This parameter will work only when the `phone_code` strategy is specified.

  ---

  - `web3WalletId?`
  - `string`

  Unique identifier for the user's web3 wallet public address. This parameter will work only when the `web3_metamask_signature` strategy is specified.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the OAuth provider should redirect to, on successful authorization on their part. This parameter is required only if you set the `strategy` param to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`.

  ---

  - `actionCompleteRedirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the user will be redirected to, after successful authorization from the OAuth provider and Clerk sign in. This parameter is required only if you set the `strategy` param to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`.
</Properties>

### Returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<[SignIn][signin-ref]></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with a [`SignIn`][signin-ref] object. Check the `firstFactorVerification` attribute for the status of the first factor verification process. |

## `attemptFirstFactor()`

Attempts to complete the first factor verification process. This is a required step in order to complete a sign in, as users should be verified at least by one factor of authentication.

Make sure that a [`SignIn`][signin-ref] object already exists before you call this method, either by first calling `SignIn.create` or `SignIn.prepareFirstFactor`. The only strategy that does not require a verification to have already been prepared before attempting to complete it, is the `password` strategy.

Depending on the strategy that was selected when the verification was prepared, the method parameters should be different.

```typescript
function attemptFirstFactor(params: AttemptFirstFactorParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

### `AttemptFirstFactorParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `string`

  The `strategy` value depends on the object's `identifier` value. Each authentication identifier supports different verification strategies. Possible `strategy` values are:

  - `'email_code'`: User will receive a one-time authentication code via email. At least one email address should be on file for the user.
  - `'phone_code'`: User will receive a one-time code via SMS. At least one phone number should be on file for the user.
  - `'password'`: The verification will attempt to be completed with the user's password.
  - `'web3_metamask_signature'`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address. Currently Clerk supports [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).
  - `'passkey'`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's passkey.
  - `'reset_password_phone_code'`: Used when the user is trying to reset their password. The user will receive a one-time code via SMS.
  - `'reset_password_email_code'`: Used when the user is trying to reset their password. The user will receive a one-time code via email.

  ---

  - `code?`
  - `string`

  The one-time code that was sent to the user as part of this verification step. This parameter is required only when `strategy` is set to `'email_code'`, `'phone_code'`, `'reset_password_phone_code'`, or `'reset_password_email_code'`.

  ---

  - `password?`
  - `string`

  The user's password string. This parameter is required only when `strategy` is set to `password`.

  ---

  - `signature?`
  - `string`

  Web3 wallet generated signature to be verified. This parameter is required only for web3 verification strategies.
</Properties>

### Returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<[SignIn][signin-ref]></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with a [`SignIn`][signin-ref] object. Check the `firstFactorVerification` attribute for the status of the first factor verification process. |

[signin-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in

Commit message:

Introduce Coinbase Wallet web3 provider and authentication strategy

docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor.mdx, after:

---
title: First factor
description: These are all methods on the SignIn class that allow you to handle the first factor of a multi-factor authentication flow.
---

These are all methods on the [`SignIn`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in) class that allow you to handle the first factor of a multi-factor authentication flow.

## `prepareFirstFactor()`

Begins the first factor verification process. This is a required step in order to complete a sign in, as users should be verified at least by one factor of authentication.

Common scenarios are one-time code (OTP) or social account (SSO) verification. This is determined by the accepted `strategy` parameter values. Each authentication identifier supports different strategies.

```typescript
function prepareFirstFactor(params: PrepareFirstFactorParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

### `PrepareFirstFactorParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `string`

  The `strategy` value depends on the object's `identifier` value. Each authentication identifier supports different verification strategies. Possible `strategy` values are:

  - `email_link`: User will receive an email magic link via email. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `email_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code via email. At least one email address should be on file for the user. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `phone_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code in their phone, via SMS. At least one phone number should be on file for the user. The `phone_number_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known phone numbers the SMS will go to.
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Metamask](https://metamask.io/). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.
  - `web3_coinbase_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Coinbase Wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/wallet). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.
  - `oauth_<provider>`: The user will be authenticated with their social sign-in account. See available [OAuth providers](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth#o-auth-provider).

  ---

  - `emailAddressId?`
  - `string`

  Unique identifier for the user's email address that will receive an email message with the one-time authentication code. This parameter will work only when the `email_code` strategy is specified.

  ---

  - `phoneNumberId?`
  - `string`

  Unique identifier for the user's phone number that will receive an SMS message with the one-time authentication code. This parameter will work only when the `phone_code` strategy is specified.

  ---

  - `web3WalletId?`
  - `string`

  Unique identifier for the user's web3 wallet public address. This parameter will work only when the `web3_metamask_signature` or `web3_coinbase_signature` strategy is specified.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the OAuth provider should redirect to, on successful authorization on their part. This parameter is required only if you set the `strategy` param to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`.

  ---

  - `actionCompleteRedirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the user will be redirected to, after successful authorization from the OAuth provider and Clerk sign in. This parameter is required only if you set the `strategy` param to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`.
</Properties>

### Returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<[SignIn][signin-ref]></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with a [`SignIn`][signin-ref] object. Check the `firstFactorVerification` attribute for the status of the first factor verification process. |

## `attemptFirstFactor()`

Attempts to complete the first factor verification process. This is a required step in order to complete a sign in, as users should be verified at least by one factor of authentication.

Make sure that a [`SignIn`][signin-ref] object already exists before you call this method, either by first calling `SignIn.create` or `SignIn.prepareFirstFactor`. The only strategy that does not require a verification to have already been prepared before attempting to complete it, is the `password` strategy.

Depending on the strategy that was selected when the verification was prepared, the method parameters should be different.

```typescript
function attemptFirstFactor(params: AttemptFirstFactorParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

### `AttemptFirstFactorParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `string`

  The `strategy` value depends on the object's `identifier` value. Each authentication identifier supports different verification strategies. Possible `strategy` values are:

  - `'email_code'`: User will receive a one-time authentication code via email. At least one email address should be on file for the user.
  - `'phone_code'`: User will receive a one-time code via SMS. At least one phone number should be on file for the user.
  - `'password'`: The verification will attempt to be completed with the user's password.
  - `'web3_metamask_signature'`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).
  - `'web3_coinbase_signature'`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Coinbase Wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/wallet).
  - `'passkey'`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's passkey.
  - `'reset_password_phone_code'`: Used when the user is trying to reset their password. The user will receive a one-time code via SMS.
  - `'reset_password_email_code'`: Used when the user is trying to reset their password. The user will receive a one-time code via email.

  ---

  - `code?`
  - `string`

  The one-time code that was sent to the user as part of this verification step. This parameter is required only when `strategy` is set to `'email_code'`, `'phone_code'`, `'reset_password_phone_code'`, or `'reset_password_email_code'`.

  ---

  - `password?`
  - `string`

  The user's password string. This parameter is required only when `strategy` is set to `password`.

  ---

  - `signature?`
  - `string`

  Web3 wallet generated signature to be verified. This parameter is required only for web3 verification strategies.
</Properties>

### Returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<[SignIn][signin-ref]></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with a [`SignIn`][signin-ref] object. Check the `firstFactorVerification` attribute for the status of the first factor verification process. |

[signin-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in
