docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in.mdx, before:

---
title: '`SignIn`'
description: The SignIn object holds all the state of the current sign in and provides helper methods to navigate and complete the sign in process.
---

The `SignIn` object holds the state of the current sign-in and provides helper methods to navigate and complete the sign-in process. It is used to manage the sign-in lifecycle, including the first and second factor verification, and the creation of a new session.

The following steps outline the sign-in process:

1. Initiate the sign-in process by collecting the user's authentication information and passing the appropriate parameters to the [`create()`](#create) method.
1. Prepare the [first factor verification.](#first-factor) Users _must_ complete a first factor verification. This can be something like providing a password, an email link, a one-time code (OTP), a web3 wallet public address, or providing proof of their identity through an external social account (SSO/OAuth).
1. Attempt to complete the first factor verification.
1. Optionally, if you have enabled [multi-factor](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options) for your application, you will need to prepare the [second factor verification](#second-factor) for users who have set up 2FA for their account.
1. Attempt to complete the second factor verification.
1. If verification is successful, set the newly created session as the active session by passing the `SignIn.createdSessionId` to the [`setActive()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods#set-active) method on the `Clerk` object.

## Properties

<Properties>
  - `status`
  - `SignInStatus`

  The current status of the sign-in. `SignInStatus` supports the following values:

  - `needs_identifier`: The authentication identifier hasn't been provided.
  - `needs_first_factor`: First factor verification for the provided identifier needs to be prepared and verified. See [First Factor](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor) for details.
  - `needs_second_factor`: Second factor verification (2FA) for the provided identifier needs to be prepared and verified. See [Second Factor](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor) for details.
  - `needs_new_password`: The user needs to set a new password.
  - `complete`: The sign-in is complete and the user is authenticated.

  ---

  - `supportedIdentifiers`
  - `SignInIdentifier[]`

  Array of all the authentication identifiers that are supported for this sign in. `SignInIdentifier` supports the following values:

  - `email_address`
  - `phone_number`
  - `web3_wallet`
  - `username`

  ---

  - `identifier`
  - `string | null`

  The authentication identifier value for the current sign-in.

  ---

  - `supportedFirstFactors`
  - <code>[SignInFirstFactor](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-first-factor)\[]</code>

  Array of the first factors that are supported in the current sign-in. Each factor contains information about the verification strategy that can be used. See the [`SignInFirstFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-first-factor) type reference for more information.

  ---

  - `supportedSecondFactors`
  - <code>[SignInSecondFactor](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-second-factor)\[]</code>

  Array of the second factors that are supported in the current sign-in. Each factor contains information about the verification strategy that can be used. This property is populated only when the first factor is verified. See the [`SignInSecondFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-second-factor) type reference for more information.

  ---

  - `firstFactorVerification`
  - [`Verification`](/docs/references/javascript/types/verification)

  The state of the verification process for the selected first factor. Initially, this property contains an empty verification object, since there is no first factor selected. You need to call the [`prepareFirstFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor#prepare-first-factor) method in order to start the verification process.

  ---

  - `secondFactorVerification`
  - [`Verification`](/docs/references/javascript/types/verification)

  The state of the verification process for the selected second factor. Initially, this property contains an empty verification object, since there is no second factor selected. For the `phone_code` strategy, you need to call the [`prepareSecondFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor#prepare-second-factor) method in order to start the verification process. For the `totp` strategy, you can directly attempt.

  ---

  - `userData`
  - `UserData`

  An object containing information about the user of the current sign-in. This property is populated only once an identifier is given to the `SignIn` object.

  ---

  - `createdSessionId`
  - `string | null`

  The identifier of the session that was created upon completion of the current sign-in. The value of this property is `null` if the sign-in status is not `complete`.
</Properties>

## Methods

### `create()`

Returns a new `SignIn` object based on the `params` you pass to it, and stores the sign-in lifecycle state in the `status` property. Use this method to initiate the sign-in process.

What you must pass to `params` depends on which [sign-in options](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options) you have enabled in your Clerk application instance.

Optionally, you can complete the sign-in process, fully authenticating the user in one step, if you supply the required fields to `create()`. Otherwise, Clerk's sign-in process provides great flexibility and allows users to easily create multi-step sign-in flows.

> [!WARNING]
> Once the sign-in process is complete, pass the `createdSessionId` to the [`setActive()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods#set-active) method on the `Clerk` object. This will set the newly created session as the active session.

```typescript
function create(params: SignInCreateParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

#### `SignInCreateParams`

<Properties>
  - `identifier`
  - `string`

  The authentication identifier for the sign-in. This can be the value of the user's email address, phone number or username.

  ---

  - `strategy?`
  - `string`

  Select the first factor verification strategy. The `strategy` value depends on the object's `identifier` value. Each authentication identifier supports different verification strategies. Possible `strategy` values are:

  - `password`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's password.
  - `email_link`: User will receive an email magic link via email. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `email_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code via email. At least one email address should be on file for the user. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `phone_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code in their phone, via SMS. At least one phone number should be on file for the user. The `phone_number_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known phone numbers the SMS will go to.
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address. The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used. Currently Clerk supports [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).
  - `oauth_<provider>`: The user will be authenticated with their social sign-in account. See available [OAuth providers](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth#o-auth-provider).
  - `ticket`: The user will be authenticated via the ticket _or token_ generated from the Backend API.
  - `google_one_tap`: The user will be authenticated with the Google One Tap UI. It's recommended to use [`authenticateWithGoogleOneTap()`](/docs/components/authentication/google-one-tap#authenticate-with-google-one-tap) instead, as it will also set the user's current session as active for you.

  ---

  - `password?`
  - `string`

  Supply the user's password. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to  `password`.

  ---

  - `ticket?`
  - `string`

  Provide the ticket _or token_ generated from the Backend API. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to `ticket`.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the OAuth provider should redirect to, on successful authorization on their part. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`. If you set the `strategy` param to `email_link`, this parameter is optional.

  ---

  - `actionCompleteRedirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the user will be redirected to, after successful authorization from the OAuth provider and Clerk sign in. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`.

  ---

  - `transfer?`
  - `boolean`

  Transfer the user to a dedicated sign-in for an OAuth flow.
</Properties>

### `resetPassword()`

Resets a user's password.

```typescript
function resetPassword(params: ResetPasswordParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

#### `ResetPasswordParams`

<Properties>
  - `password`
  - `string`

  The user's current password.

  ---

  - `signOutOfOtherSessions?`
  - `boolean | undefined`

  If `true`, log the user out of all other authenticated sessions.
</Properties>

### `createEmailLinkFlow()`

Sets up a sign in with email link flow. Calling `createemailLinkFlow()` will return two functions. The first function is async and starts the email link flow, preparing a email link verification. It sends the email link email and starts polling for verification results. The signature is `startEmailLinkFlow({ redirectUrl: string, emailAddressId: string }) => Promise<SignInResource>`.

The second function can be used to stop polling at any time, allowing for full control of the flow and cleanup. The signature is `cancelEmailLinkFlow() => void`.

```typescript
function createEmailLinkFlow(): {
  startEmailLinkFlow: (params: SignInStartEmailLinkFlowParams) => Promise<SignIn>
  cancelEmailLinkFlow: () => void
}
```

#### Returns

`createEmailLinkFlow` returns an object with two functions:

<Properties>
  - `startEmailLinkFlow`
  - <code>(params: [SignInStartEmailLinkFlowParams](#sign-in-start-email-link-flow-params)) => Promise\<SignIn></code>

  Function to start the email link flow. It prepares an email link verification and polls for the verification result.

  ---

  - `cancelEmailLinkFlow`
  - `() => void`

  Function to cleanup the email link flow. Stops waiting for verification results.
</Properties>

#### `SignInStartEmailLinkFlowParams`

<Properties>
  - `emailAddressId`
  - `string`

  The ID of the user's email address that's going to be used as the first factor identification for verification.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl`
  - `string`

  The email link target URL. Users will be redirected here once they click the email link from their email.
</Properties>

## Additional methods

In addition to the methods listed above, the `SignIn` class also has the following methods:

### First factor

- [`prepareFirstFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor#prepare-first-factor)
- [`attemptFirstFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor#attempt-first-factor)

### Second factor

- [`prepareSecondFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor#prepare-second-factor)
- [`attemptSecondFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor#attempt-second-factor)

### Authenticate with

- [`authenticateWithRedirect()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-redirect)
- [`authenticateWithMetamask()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-metamask)
- [`authenticateWithWeb3()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-web3)

Commit message:

Introduce Coinbase Wallet web3 provider and authentication strategy

docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in.mdx, after:

---
title: '`SignIn`'
description: The SignIn object holds all the state of the current sign in and provides helper methods to navigate and complete the sign in process.
---

The `SignIn` object holds the state of the current sign-in and provides helper methods to navigate and complete the sign-in process. It is used to manage the sign-in lifecycle, including the first and second factor verification, and the creation of a new session.

The following steps outline the sign-in process:

1. Initiate the sign-in process by collecting the user's authentication information and passing the appropriate parameters to the [`create()`](#create) method.
1. Prepare the [first factor verification.](#first-factor) Users _must_ complete a first factor verification. This can be something like providing a password, an email link, a one-time code (OTP), a web3 wallet public address, or providing proof of their identity through an external social account (SSO/OAuth).
1. Attempt to complete the first factor verification.
1. Optionally, if you have enabled [multi-factor](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options) for your application, you will need to prepare the [second factor verification](#second-factor) for users who have set up 2FA for their account.
1. Attempt to complete the second factor verification.
1. If verification is successful, set the newly created session as the active session by passing the `SignIn.createdSessionId` to the [`setActive()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods#set-active) method on the `Clerk` object.

## Properties

<Properties>
  - `status`
  - `SignInStatus`

  The current status of the sign-in. `SignInStatus` supports the following values:

  - `needs_identifier`: The authentication identifier hasn't been provided.
  - `needs_first_factor`: First factor verification for the provided identifier needs to be prepared and verified. See [First Factor](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor) for details.
  - `needs_second_factor`: Second factor verification (2FA) for the provided identifier needs to be prepared and verified. See [Second Factor](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor) for details.
  - `needs_new_password`: The user needs to set a new password.
  - `complete`: The sign-in is complete and the user is authenticated.

  ---

  - `supportedIdentifiers`
  - `SignInIdentifier[]`

  Array of all the authentication identifiers that are supported for this sign in. `SignInIdentifier` supports the following values:

  - `email_address`
  - `phone_number`
  - `web3_wallet`
  - `username`

  ---

  - `identifier`
  - `string | null`

  The authentication identifier value for the current sign-in.

  ---

  - `supportedFirstFactors`
  - <code>[SignInFirstFactor](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-first-factor)\[]</code>

  Array of the first factors that are supported in the current sign-in. Each factor contains information about the verification strategy that can be used. See the [`SignInFirstFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-first-factor) type reference for more information.

  ---

  - `supportedSecondFactors`
  - <code>[SignInSecondFactor](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-second-factor)\[]</code>

  Array of the second factors that are supported in the current sign-in. Each factor contains information about the verification strategy that can be used. This property is populated only when the first factor is verified. See the [`SignInSecondFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/types/sign-in-second-factor) type reference for more information.

  ---

  - `firstFactorVerification`
  - [`Verification`](/docs/references/javascript/types/verification)

  The state of the verification process for the selected first factor. Initially, this property contains an empty verification object, since there is no first factor selected. You need to call the [`prepareFirstFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor#prepare-first-factor) method in order to start the verification process.

  ---

  - `secondFactorVerification`
  - [`Verification`](/docs/references/javascript/types/verification)

  The state of the verification process for the selected second factor. Initially, this property contains an empty verification object, since there is no second factor selected. For the `phone_code` strategy, you need to call the [`prepareSecondFactor`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor#prepare-second-factor) method in order to start the verification process. For the `totp` strategy, you can directly attempt.

  ---

  - `userData`
  - `UserData`

  An object containing information about the user of the current sign-in. This property is populated only once an identifier is given to the `SignIn` object.

  ---

  - `createdSessionId`
  - `string | null`

  The identifier of the session that was created upon completion of the current sign-in. The value of this property is `null` if the sign-in status is not `complete`.
</Properties>

## Methods

### `create()`

Returns a new `SignIn` object based on the `params` you pass to it, and stores the sign-in lifecycle state in the `status` property. Use this method to initiate the sign-in process.

What you must pass to `params` depends on which [sign-in options](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options) you have enabled in your Clerk application instance.

Optionally, you can complete the sign-in process, fully authenticating the user in one step, if you supply the required fields to `create()`. Otherwise, Clerk's sign-in process provides great flexibility and allows users to easily create multi-step sign-in flows.

> [!WARNING]
> Once the sign-in process is complete, pass the `createdSessionId` to the [`setActive()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods#set-active) method on the `Clerk` object. This will set the newly created session as the active session.

```typescript
function create(params: SignInCreateParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

#### `SignInCreateParams`

<Properties>
  - `identifier`
  - `string`

  The authentication identifier for the sign-in. This can be the value of the user's email address, phone number or username.

  ---

  - `strategy?`
  - `string`

  Select the first factor verification strategy. The `strategy` value depends on the object's `identifier` value. Each authentication identifier supports different verification strategies. Possible `strategy` values are:

  - `password`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's password.
  - `email_link`: User will receive an email magic link via email. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `email_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code via email. At least one email address should be on file for the user. The `email_address_id` parameter can also be specified to select one of the user's known email addresses.
  - `phone_code`: User will receive a one-time authentication code in their phone, via SMS. At least one phone number should be on file for the user. The `phone_number_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known phone numbers the SMS will go to.
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Metamask](https://metamask.io/). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.
  - `web3_coinbase_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Coinbase Wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/wallet). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.
  - `oauth_<provider>`: The user will be authenticated with their social sign-in account. See available [OAuth providers](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth#o-auth-provider).
  - `ticket`: The user will be authenticated via the ticket _or token_ generated from the Backend API.
  - `google_one_tap`: The user will be authenticated with the Google One Tap UI. It's recommended to use [`authenticateWithGoogleOneTap()`](/docs/components/authentication/google-one-tap#authenticate-with-google-one-tap) instead, as it will also set the user's current session as active for you.

  ---

  - `password?`
  - `string`

  Supply the user's password. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to  `password`.

  ---

  - `ticket?`
  - `string`

  Provide the ticket _or token_ generated from the Backend API. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to `ticket`.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the OAuth provider should redirect to, on successful authorization on their part. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`. If you set the `strategy` param to `email_link`, this parameter is optional.

  ---

  - `actionCompleteRedirectUrl?`
  - `string`

  The URL that the user will be redirected to, after successful authorization from the OAuth provider and Clerk sign in. This parameter is required only if `strategy` is set to an OAuth strategy like `oauth_<provider>`.

  ---

  - `transfer?`
  - `boolean`

  Transfer the user to a dedicated sign-in for an OAuth flow.
</Properties>

### `resetPassword()`

Resets a user's password.

```typescript
function resetPassword(params: ResetPasswordParams): Promise<SignIn>
```

#### `ResetPasswordParams`

<Properties>
  - `password`
  - `string`

  The user's current password.

  ---

  - `signOutOfOtherSessions?`
  - `boolean | undefined`

  If `true`, log the user out of all other authenticated sessions.
</Properties>

### `createEmailLinkFlow()`

Sets up a sign in with email link flow. Calling `createemailLinkFlow()` will return two functions. The first function is async and starts the email link flow, preparing a email link verification. It sends the email link email and starts polling for verification results. The signature is `startEmailLinkFlow({ redirectUrl: string, emailAddressId: string }) => Promise<SignInResource>`.

The second function can be used to stop polling at any time, allowing for full control of the flow and cleanup. The signature is `cancelEmailLinkFlow() => void`.

```typescript
function createEmailLinkFlow(): {
  startEmailLinkFlow: (params: SignInStartEmailLinkFlowParams) => Promise<SignIn>
  cancelEmailLinkFlow: () => void
}
```

#### Returns

`createEmailLinkFlow` returns an object with two functions:

<Properties>
  - `startEmailLinkFlow`
  - <code>(params: [SignInStartEmailLinkFlowParams](#sign-in-start-email-link-flow-params)) => Promise\<SignIn></code>

  Function to start the email link flow. It prepares an email link verification and polls for the verification result.

  ---

  - `cancelEmailLinkFlow`
  - `() => void`

  Function to cleanup the email link flow. Stops waiting for verification results.
</Properties>

#### `SignInStartEmailLinkFlowParams`

<Properties>
  - `emailAddressId`
  - `string`

  The ID of the user's email address that's going to be used as the first factor identification for verification.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl`
  - `string`

  The email link target URL. Users will be redirected here once they click the email link from their email.
</Properties>

## Additional methods

In addition to the methods listed above, the `SignIn` class also has the following methods:

### First factor

- [`prepareFirstFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor#prepare-first-factor)
- [`attemptFirstFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/first-factor#attempt-first-factor)

### Second factor

- [`prepareSecondFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor#prepare-second-factor)
- [`attemptSecondFactor()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/second-factor#attempt-second-factor)

### Authenticate with

- [`authenticateWithRedirect()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-redirect)
- [`authenticateWithMetamask()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-metamask)
- [`authenticateWithCoinbase()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-coinbase)
- [`authenticateWithWeb3()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-web3)
