docs/references/javascript/sign-up/verification.mdx, before:

---
title: Verification
description: These are all methods on the SignUp class that allow you to verify a user's sign-up request.
---

These are all methods on the [`SignUp`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-up/sign-up) class that allow you to verify a user's sign-up request.

## `prepareVerification()`

The `prepareVerification` is used to initiate the verification process for a field that requires it. As mentioned above, there are two fields that need to be verified:

- `emailAddress`: The email address can be verified via an email code. This is a one-time code that is sent to the email already provided to the SignUp object. The `prepareVerification` sends this email.
- `phoneNumber`: The phone number can be verified via a phone code. This is a one-time code that is sent via an SMS to the phone already provided to the SignUp object. The `prepareVerification` sends this SMS.

```typescript
function prepareVerification(params: PrepareVerificationParams): Promise<SignUpResource>
```

### `PrepareVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `'phone_code' | 'email_code' | 'email_link' | 'saml' | 'oauth_<provider>' | 'web3_metamask_signature'`

  The verification strategy to validate the user's sign-up request. The following strategies are supported:

  - `phone_code`: Send an SMS with a unique token to input.
  - `email_code`: Send an email with a unique token to input.
  - `email_link`: Send an email with a link which validates sign-up
  - `saml`: The user will be authenticated with SAML. **Experimental**
  - `oauth_<provider>`: The user will be authenticated with their social sign-in account. See available [OAuth providers](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth#o-auth-provider).
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address. The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used. Currently Clerk supports [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).

  ---

  - `redirectUrl`
  - `string`

  The URL to redirect the user to after the verification process is complete.<br />Only supported on `email_link`, `oauth_<provider>`, and `saml` strategies.
</Properties>

## `attemptVerification()`

Attempts to complete the in-flight verification process that corresponds to the given strategy. In order to use this method, you should first initiate a verification process by calling [SignUp.prepareVerification](/docs/references/javascript/sign-up/verification#prepare-verification).

Depending on the strategy, the method parameters could differ.

```typescript
function attemptVerification(params: AttemptVerificationParams): Promise<SignUp>
```

### `AttemptVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `'phone_code' | 'email_code' | 'web3_metamask_signature'`

  The verification strategy to complete the user's sign-up request against. The following strategies are supported:

  - `phone_code`: Validates an SMS with a unique token to input.
  - `email_code`: Validates an email with a unique token to input.
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address. The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used. Currently Clerk supports [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).

  ---

  - `code`
  - `string`

  The code that was sent to the user via the `phone_code` or `email_code` verification strategies.

  ---

  - `signature`
  - `string`

  The signature that was sent to the user via the Web3 verification strategy.
</Properties>

[signup-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/sign-up/sign-up

Commit message:

Introduce Coinbase Wallet web3 provider and authentication strategy

docs/references/javascript/sign-up/verification.mdx, after:

---
title: Verification
description: These are all methods on the SignUp class that allow you to verify a user's sign-up request.
---

These are all methods on the [`SignUp`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-up/sign-up) class that allow you to verify a user's sign-up request.

## `prepareVerification()`

The `prepareVerification` is used to initiate the verification process for a field that requires it. As mentioned above, there are two fields that need to be verified:

- `emailAddress`: The email address can be verified via an email code. This is a one-time code that is sent to the email already provided to the SignUp object. The `prepareVerification` sends this email.
- `phoneNumber`: The phone number can be verified via a phone code. This is a one-time code that is sent via an SMS to the phone already provided to the SignUp object. The `prepareVerification` sends this SMS.

```typescript
function prepareVerification(params: PrepareVerificationParams): Promise<SignUpResource>
```

### `PrepareVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `'phone_code' | 'email_code' | 'email_link' | 'saml' | 'oauth_<provider>' | 'web3_metamask_signature' | 'web3_coinbase_signature'`

  The verification strategy to validate the user's sign-up request. The following strategies are supported:

  - `phone_code`: Send an SMS with a unique token to input.
  - `email_code`: Send an email with a unique token to input.
  - `email_link`: Send an email with a link which validates sign-up
  - `saml`: The user will be authenticated with SAML. **Experimental**
  - `oauth_<provider>`: The user will be authenticated with their social sign-in account. See available [OAuth providers](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth#o-auth-provider).
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Metamask](https://metamask.io/). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.
  - `web3_coinbase_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Coinbase Wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/wallet). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.

  ---

  - `redirectUrl`
  - `string`

  The URL to redirect the user to after the verification process is complete.<br />Only supported on `email_link`, `oauth_<provider>`, and `saml` strategies.
</Properties>

## `attemptVerification()`

Attempts to complete the in-flight verification process that corresponds to the given strategy. In order to use this method, you should first initiate a verification process by calling [SignUp.prepareVerification](/docs/references/javascript/sign-up/verification#prepare-verification).

Depending on the strategy, the method parameters could differ.

```typescript
function attemptVerification(params: AttemptVerificationParams): Promise<SignUp>
```

### `AttemptVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `'phone_code' | 'email_code' | 'web3_metamask_signature' | 'web3_coinbase_signature'`

  The verification strategy to complete the user's sign-up request against. The following strategies are supported:

  - `phone_code`: Validates an SMS with a unique token to input.
  - `email_code`: Validates an email with a unique token to input.
  - `web3_metamask_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Metamask](https://metamask.io/). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.
  - `web3_coinbase_signature`: The verification will attempt to be completed using the user's web3 wallet public address via [Coinbase Wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/wallet). The `web3_wallet_id` parameter can also be specified to select which of the user's known web3 wallets will be used.

  ---

  - `code`
  - `string`

  The code that was sent to the user via the `phone_code` or `email_code` verification strategies.

  ---

  - `signature`
  - `string`

  The signature that was sent to the user via the Web3 verification strategy.
</Properties>

[signup-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/sign-up/sign-up
