docs/users/web3.mdx, before:

---
title: Use Clerk with Web3
description: Learn to install and initialize Clerk in a new Web3 application.
---

Learn how to use Clerk to quickly and easily add secure authentication and user management to your Web3 application.

## Before you start

You need to create a Clerk application in your [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) and configure the application to use **Sign in with Metamask**. For more information on how to set up a Clerk application, check out the [setup guide](/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk). To enable Metamask authentication, check out [this guide](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#web3-authentication).

Please ensure that you have downloaded the [Metamask plugin](https://metamask.io/download/) and installed it on your browser to ensure a seamless sign-in flow.

## Creating a new Next.js app

Once you have a Clerk application set up in the dashboard, it's time to create a Next.js application. Clerk provides a detailed guide on how to [create a new Next.js app with Clerk](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs).

## Accessing the Web3 address from the frontend

At this point, you should have a Next.js application integrated with Clerk and with Metamask authentication enabled. Run `npm run dev` and visit `localhost:3000`. If you followed the guide, all of the pages to your application should be protected, and you should see your sign-in page.

After signing in with Metamask, you'll be presented with the Next.js default start screen. Let's modify the start screen to display a user's primary Web3 address on the page.

In this example, the [`User`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user) object for the current user can be accessed through the [`useUser()`](/docs/references/react/use-user) hook. The user's primary Web3 address can then be retrieved from the `User` object.

```jsx {{ filename: 'pages/index.js' }}
import { SignIn, SignOutButton, UserButton, useUser } from '@clerk/nextjs'

export default function Home() {
  const { user } = useUser()

  if (!user) {
    return <SignIn />
  }

  const primaryWeb3Wallet = user?.primaryWeb3Wallet

  return (
    <>
      <header
        style={{
          display: 'flex',
          justifyContent: 'space-between',
          padding: '1rem',
        }}
      >
        <span>My first App</span>
        <UserButton />
      </header>
      <main style={{ padding: '1rem' }}>
        <p>Address: {primaryWeb3Wallet ? primaryWeb3Wallet.web3Wallet : 'Not found'}</p>
        <SignOutButton />
      </main>
    </>
  )
}
```

## Accessing the Web3 address from the backend

### Add authentication to a serverless API route

A new Next.js app using Pages Router comes with a sample API route in `/pages/api/hello.js`. Let's modify it to retrieve the user's Web3 address:

```ts {{ filename: 'pages/api/hello.ts' }}
import type { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from 'next'
import { getAuth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'
import { clerkClient } from '@clerk/nextjs'

export default async function handler(req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse) {
  try {
    const { userId } = getAuth(req)

    if (!userId) {
      return res.status(401).json({ error: 'Unauthorized' })
    }

    const user = userId ? await clerkClient.users.getUser(userId) : null

    // Retrieve the user's web3Wallet
    const walletId = user ? user.primaryWeb3WalletId : null
    const address = user ? user.web3Wallets.find((wallet) => wallet.id === walletId) : null

    res.status(200).json({ address: address })
  } catch (e) {
    console.log(e)

    res.status(500).json({
      error: 'Something went wrong retrieving the web3wallet from Clerk',
    })
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Now that you have Web3 authentication in a new Next.js application, and you know how to retrieve the user's Web3 address from both the frontend and the backend, you will want to read the following documentation:

<Cards>
  - [Customization & Localization](/docs/customization/overview)
  - Learn how to customize and localize the Clerk components.

  ---

  - [Authentication Components](/docs/components/overview)
  - Learn more about all our authentication components.

  ---

  - [Client Side Helpers](/docs/references/nextjs/overview#client-side-helpers)
  - Learn more about our client side helpers and how to use them.

  ---

  - [Next.js SDK Reference](/docs/references/nextjs/overview)
  - Learn more about additional Next.js methods.
</Cards>

Commit message:

Introduce Coinbase Wallet web3 provider and authentication strategy

docs/users/web3.mdx, after:

---
title: Use Clerk with Web3
description: Learn to install and initialize Clerk in a new Web3 application.
---

Learn how to use Clerk to quickly and easily add secure authentication and user management to your Web3 application.

## Before you start

You need to create a Clerk application in your [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) and configure the application to use **Sign in with Metamask** or **Sign in with Coinbase Wallet**. For more information on how to set up a Clerk application, check out the [setup guide](/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk). To enable Metamask or Coinbase Wallet authentication, check out [this guide](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#web3-authentication).

Please ensure that you have downloaded the [Metamask](https://metamask.io/download/) or [Coinbase Wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/wallet/downloads) plugins and installed it on your browser to ensure a seamless sign-in flow.

## Creating a new Next.js app

Once you have a Clerk application set up in the dashboard, it's time to create a Next.js application. Clerk provides a detailed guide on how to [create a new Next.js app with Clerk](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs).

## Accessing the Web3 address from the frontend

At this point, you should have a Next.js application integrated with Clerk and with Metamask or Coinbase Wallet authentication enabled. Run `npm run dev` and visit `localhost:3000`. If you followed the guide, all of the pages to your application should be protected, and you should see your sign-in page.

After signing in with Metamask or Coinbase Wallet, you'll be presented with the Next.js default start screen. Let's modify the start screen to display a user's primary Web3 address on the page.

In this example, the [`User`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user) object for the current user can be accessed through the [`useUser()`](/docs/references/react/use-user) hook. The user's primary Web3 address can then be retrieved from the `User` object.

```jsx {{ filename: 'pages/index.js' }}
import { SignIn, SignOutButton, UserButton, useUser } from '@clerk/nextjs'

export default function Home() {
  const { user } = useUser()

  if (!user) {
    return <SignIn />
  }

  const primaryWeb3Wallet = user?.primaryWeb3Wallet

  return (
    <>
      <header
        style={{
          display: 'flex',
          justifyContent: 'space-between',
          padding: '1rem',
        }}
      >
        <span>My first App</span>
        <UserButton />
      </header>
      <main style={{ padding: '1rem' }}>
        <p>Address: {primaryWeb3Wallet ? primaryWeb3Wallet.web3Wallet : 'Not found'}</p>
        <SignOutButton />
      </main>
    </>
  )
}
```

## Accessing the Web3 address from the backend

### Add authentication to a serverless API route

A new Next.js app using Pages Router comes with a sample API route in `/pages/api/hello.js`. Let's modify it to retrieve the user's Web3 address:

```ts {{ filename: 'pages/api/hello.ts' }}
import type { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from 'next'
import { getAuth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'
import { clerkClient } from '@clerk/nextjs'

export default async function handler(req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse) {
  try {
    const { userId } = getAuth(req)

    if (!userId) {
      return res.status(401).json({ error: 'Unauthorized' })
    }

    const user = userId ? await clerkClient.users.getUser(userId) : null

    // Retrieve the user's web3Wallet
    const walletId = user ? user.primaryWeb3WalletId : null
    const address = user ? user.web3Wallets.find((wallet) => wallet.id === walletId) : null

    res.status(200).json({ address: address })
  } catch (e) {
    console.log(e)

    res.status(500).json({
      error: 'Something went wrong retrieving the web3wallet from Clerk',
    })
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Now that you have Web3 authentication in a new Next.js application, and you know how to retrieve the user's Web3 address from both the frontend and the backend, you will want to read the following documentation:

<Cards>
  - [Customization & Localization](/docs/customization/overview)
  - Learn how to customize and localize the Clerk components.

  ---

  - [Authentication Components](/docs/components/overview)
  - Learn more about all our authentication components.

  ---

  - [Client Side Helpers](/docs/references/nextjs/overview#client-side-helpers)
  - Learn more about our client side helpers and how to use them.

  ---

  - [Next.js SDK Reference](/docs/references/nextjs/overview)
  - Learn more about additional Next.js methods.
</Cards>
