docs/references/javascript/web3-wallet/verification.mdx, before:

---
title: '`Web3Wallet` verification'
description: Learn about the methods on the Web3Wallet object that allow you to verify a user's web3 wallet.
---

The [`Web3Wallet`][web3-ref] object has methods that allow you to verify a user's web3 wallet.

## `prepareVerification()`

Kick off the verification process for this web3 wallet. The user will be prompted to sign a generated nonce by the browser extension e.g MetaMask.

```typescript
function prepareVerification(params: PrepareWeb3WalletVerificationParams): Promise<Web3Wallet>
```

### `PrepareWeb3WalletVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `'web3_metamask_signature'`

  The verification strategy. Possible strategy values are:

  - `web3_metamask_signature`: User will need to sign a message and generate a signature using MetaMask browser extension.
</Properties>

### `prepareVerification()` returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<User></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with the current [`Web3Wallet`][web3-ref] object. |

## `attemptVerification()`

Attempts to verify this web3 wallet, by passing the generated signature.

```typescript
function attemptVerification(params: AttemptWeb3WalletVerificationParams): Promise<Web3Wallet>
```

### `AttemptWeb3WalletVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `signature`
  - `string`

  The signature that was generated after [`prepareVerification`](#prepare-verification) was called.
</Properties>

### `attemptVerification()` returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<User></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with the current [`Web3Wallet`][web3-ref] object. |

[web3-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/web3-wallet/web3-wallet

Commit message:

Introduce Coinbase Wallet web3 provider and authentication strategy

docs/references/javascript/web3-wallet/verification.mdx, after:

---
title: '`Web3Wallet` verification'
description: Learn about the methods on the Web3Wallet object that allow you to verify a user's web3 wallet.
---

The [`Web3Wallet`][web3-ref] object has methods that allow you to verify a user's web3 wallet.

## `prepareVerification()`

Kick off the verification process for this web3 wallet. The user will be prompted to sign a generated nonce by the browser extension e.g MetaMask.

```typescript
function prepareVerification(params: PrepareWeb3WalletVerificationParams): Promise<Web3Wallet>
```

### `PrepareWeb3WalletVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `strategy`
  - `'web3_metamask_signature'`
  - `'web3_coinbase_signature'`

  The verification strategy. Possible strategy values are:

  - `web3_metamask_signature`: User will need to sign a message and generate a signature using MetaMask browser extension.
  - `web3_coinbase_signature`: User will need to sign a message and generate a signature using Coinbase Wallet browser extension.
</Properties>

### `prepareVerification()` returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<User></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with the current [`Web3Wallet`][web3-ref] object. |

## `attemptVerification()`

Attempts to verify this web3 wallet, by passing the generated signature.

```typescript
function attemptVerification(params: AttemptWeb3WalletVerificationParams): Promise<Web3Wallet>
```

### `AttemptWeb3WalletVerificationParams`

<Properties>
  - `signature`
  - `string`

  The signature that was generated after [`prepareVerification`](#prepare-verification) was called.
</Properties>

### `attemptVerification()` returns

| Type | Description |
| - | - |
| <code>Promise\<User></code> | A `Promise` which resolves with the current [`Web3Wallet`][web3-ref] object. |

[web3-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/web3-wallet/web3-wallet
